You're, uh, you got a Nobel prize for, uh, looking out into the,
trying to reach back into the beginning of the universe,
listening to the gravitational waves. Uh,
but that still doesn't answer the why.
Why are we here beyond just the, yeah, the matter. And antimatter
the philosophical question, the.
Philoso philosophical question about the meaning of life.
I'm probably not really good at. Um, I think that,
um,
The individual meaning, uh, I,
I would say it rather some realistically is whether you've made
a difference, a positive difference, I'd say for anything besides yourself,
uh, meaning you could have been important to other people,
or you could have discovered gravitational waves that matters to other people or
something,
but something beyond just existing on the earth as an individual.
So your life has meaning if you have affected,
um,
either knowledge or people or something beyond yourself,
Do you, it's a simplistic statement, but it's about as good as I, yeah.
That's that may in all of its simplicity, it may be very true.
Do you think about, um, does it make you sad that this ride ends?
Do you think about your mortality?
Yeah. Uh.
Are you afraid of it?
Uh, not exactly afraid of it, but sadden by it. And, uh,
uh, you know,
I'm old enough to know that I've lived most of my life
and, uh, uh, I enjoy being alive. I,
I can imagine being sick and not wanting to be alive, but I'm not. And so,
uh, I'm.
Not, it's been a good ride. Uh.
Yeah, I'm not ha and I'm not happy to see it come to,
then I'd like to see it prolong, but, uh, I, I don't,
uh, I, I, I,
I don't fear the dying itself or that kind of thing. It's more,
I'd like to prolong, uh, what is, I think, uh,
uh, a good life that I'm Le living and still living.
It's kind of, it's sad to think that the,
the fineness of it is the thing that makes it special
and it, and also sad to, um,
you know, to me, at least it's kind of,
I don't think I'm using too strong of a word,
but it's kind of terrifying the uncertainty of it,
the mystery of it, you know, the, the mystery of death, the mystery of it. Yeah.
Of death. When we're talking about the mystery of black holes,
that's somehow distant. That's somehow out there and the mystery of our own,
but.
But, but even life, the mystery of consciousness, I find, uh,
so hard to deal with too. I mean, it's not as painful. I mean, we're conscious,
but the whole magic of life, we can understand,
but consciousness where we can actually think and so forth.
It's pretty, it's such,
it seems like such a beautiful gift that it really sucks that, uh,
we get the let go of it. We have to let go of, yeah.
What do you hope your legacy is as I'm sure they will, uh,
aliens when they visit and humans have destroyed all of, uh, human civilization,
aliens read about you and encyclopedia, they will leave behind, uh,
what do you hope? It says.
Well, I would, I would hope they, if,
to the extent that they evaluated me, uh,
felt that I helped move science forward as a
tangible contribution. And that, uh,
I served as a good role model for how humans should live their lives.
And were part of creating one of the most incredible things humans
have ever created. So yes, there's the science, that's the firmly thing, right?
Yeah. Uh, there.
And the instrument.
I guess, and the instrument, the instrument is a magical creation,
not just by a human, by a collection of humans. The collaboration
is, um, that's,
that's humanity at his best. Uh, I, I do hope,
I do hope we last quite a bit longer, but if we don't,
this is a good, uh, thing to remember humans by at least they built that thing.
<laugh>, that's pretty impressive. Barry, this is an amazing conversation.
Thank you so much for wasting you your time in explaining, uh, so many things.
So, well, I appreciate your time today. Thank.
You.